Daniel Nolan
9/8/14
CSCI 3002
Thought Questions Week 3


This week I spent 6 hours on work for the course. This consisted of 1.5 hours exploring materials online, 1.5 hours reading/viewing the assigned materials, and 3 on assignments.
My answer(s) to this week's thought question(s):


TQ1:
1)	The first video with Engelbart emphasized on a computer that could be alive all day and was responsive to all actions you make through physical means. This anticipated the common desktop computer that we currently have today. These computers/CPUs are plugged into constant power supplies that keep the computer on all day. Also, the implementation of Sleep Modes gives our PCs a greater life span. The implementation of laptops also became an improvement from this basic idea since they contain rechargeable Lithium Ion batteries which was unheard of back then.
2)	The keyboard implementation back then helped create a basic design for the current keyboard layouts we have today. The five buttons on the left were much like the Alt-# layout on the right numbers 1-9 that can be active with NumLock on. This helps us make hundreds of characters other than letters and numbers. This compares to the 31 combos the 5 keys could make back then. The mouse is still used today and was upgraded years later with the Xerox Star, which looked more like the modern-day mouse. 
TQ2:
1)	The 2 button mouse was one aspect that was anticipated in the future today. 
2)	The basic copy functions like “File”, “Document”, and other names for symbols and icons were implemented back on the Xerox Star and are still used today. Also, a very simple version of Microsoft Word was implemented on this computer since you could create bar charts (Excel), email people (Outlook), and create word documents along with bringing these altogether.
Thought question 3: Do you feel that people seeking to develop new, pioneering technologies should, or should not, pay attention to usability? 
3)	      
I personally think that people seeking to develop new user centered technology should emphasize on usability or implement simple guidelines to make the product easy to use. The Vannevar Bush example in the essay touched on the fact of designing the Memex system that could be used by ordinary people, which was unheard of at that point in history. Hi imaginary project that was never created stemmed user centered objects like the World Wide Web and Hypertext. The next creation was sketchpad, which was an object-oriented graphics editor (like an early CAD) that was very difficult to use. But the main point of this program was that users with no experience could create easy shapes with the building blocks set in place for them. Sutherland’s Sketchpad flop led to CAD hitting the forefront of graphics editing programs and still is a main design program today. These two examples show that user centered designs of programs/inventions led to instant or gradual success on new users. 
Engelbart’s invention of the NLS system was the exact opposite of these last two examples. Engelbart’s system focused on being complex and difficult since he viewed that to be what a computer should be. A great deal of learning would cause an individual to be proficient with this object created by his team. Since there was no ease of use ARPA installed them in their computers and realized that it was very difficult to grasp and didn’t cater to those who were new to the system.  This example showed that the NLS system was a flop among new users and didn’t value usability of the product since around demo time only the developers of this product were using it. Human usability is a huge deal when pioneering a new product and should not be overlooked in the way that Engelbart did in 1968. 
